The OSI (Open Systems Interconnection) Model is a standardised model which we use to demonstrate thee theory behind computer neetwork.
In practice, it's actually the more compact TCP/IP model that real-world networking is based off; however the OSI model, in many ways, is easier to get an initial understanding from.

THE OSI LAYERS:
Application
Presentation
Session
Transport
Network
Data Link
Physical

Anxious Pale Shakespeare Treated Nervous Drunks Patiently

7 Application:
essentially provides networking options to programs running on a computer. 
Providing an interface to use in order to transmit data. When data is given to apllication layer, it is passed down into the presentation layer.

6 Presentation:
The presentation layer receives data from the application layer. 
The data tends to be in a format that the application understands, but its not necessarily in a format that could be understood by the application layer in the receiving computer.
The presentation layer translates the data into a standardised format, as well as handling any encryption, compression or other transformations to the data.
With this complete, the data is passed down to the session layer.

5 Session:
When the session layer receives the correctly formatted data from the presentation layer, it looks to see if it can set up a connection with the other computer across thee network.
If cant then it sends back an error and the process goes no further.
If a session can be established then its the job of the session layer to maintain it, as well as co-operate with the session layer of remote computer in order to synchronise communications. 
This layer is particularity important because it creates a unique session to the communication in question, that is what allows you to make multiple requests to different endpoints simultaneously without all the data getting mixed up.
When the session layer has sucessfully logged a connection between the host and remote computer the data is passed down to layer 4.

4 Transport:
The Transport layer is a very interesting that serves numerous important functions.
The fiest is to choose the protocol over wich the data is to be transmittes. (The 2 most common protocols are TCP and UDP)
With TCP the transmission is connection-based which means that a connection between the computers is established  and maintained for the duration of the request. This allows for a reliable transmissions, as the connection can be used to ensure that the packets all get to the right place. A TCP connection allows the two computers to remain in constant communication to ensure that the data is sent at ab acceptable speed, and that any lost data is re-sent.
With USP, the opposite is true; packets of data are essentially thrown at the receiving computer -- if it can't keep up then that's its problem (this is why a video transmission over something like Skype can be pixelated if the connection is bad). 
What this means is that TCP would usually be chosen for situations where accuracy is favoured over speed (e.g. file transfer, or loading a webpage), and UDP would be used in situations where speed is more important (e.g. video streaming).
With a protocol selected, the transport layer then divides the transmission up into bite-sized pieces (over TCP these are called segments, over UDP they're called datagrams), which makes it easier to transmit the message successfully. 

3 Network:
The network layer is responsible for locating the destination of your request. 
For example, the Internet is a huge network; when you want to request information from a webpage, it's the network layer that takes the IP address for the page and figures out the best route to take. At this stage we're working with what is referred to as Logical addressing (i.e. IP addresses) which are still software controlled. Logical addresses are used to provide order to networks, categorising them and allowing us to properly sort them. Currently the most common form of logical addressing is the IPV4 format, which you'll likely already be familiar with (i.e 192.168.1.1 is a common address for a home router).

2 Data Link:
The data link layer focuses on the physical addressing of the transmission. It receives a packet from the network layer (that includes the IP address for the remote computer) and adds in the physical (MAC) address of the receiving endpoint. Inside every network enabled computer is a Network Interface Card (NIC) which comes with a unique MAC (Media Access Control) address to identify it.
MAC addresses are set by the manufacturer and literally burnt into the card; they can't be changed -- although they can be spoofed. When information is sent across a network, it's actually the physical address that is used to identify where exactly to send the information.
Additionally, it's also the job of the data link layer to present the data in a format suitable for transmission.
The data link layer also serves an important function when it receives data, as it checks the received information to make sure that it hasn't been corrupted during transmission, which could well happen when the data is transmitted by layer 1: the physical layer.

1 Psysical:
The physical layer is right down to the hardware of the computer. This is where the electrical pulses that make up data transfer over a network are sent and received. It's the job of the physical layer to convert the binary data of the transmission into signals and transmit them across the network, as well as receiving incoming signals and converting them back into binary data.

